============= Free and Open Source Software Disclosure Statement ==============


For Zeiss.PiWeb.Volume 2.0.0


This product includes copyrighted software from third parties that may be
distributed under different licenses than this product as given below.

In case we missed to list a specific software and/or underlying license,
we appreciate your upfront notice.

This product may include copyrighted software that is distributed under a
license that requires us to provide the source code of that software and
instructions on how to build and install it, such as the GNU GPL or GNU
LGPL or other reciprocal licenses. Unless otherwise stated the original
source code of such software has not been modified. As recipient and user of
this product you may obtain the complete source code for such copyrighted
software as well as build and install instructions from us for a period of
three years starting with the reception of the product and at no charge.

In any of such cases, please send an email to opensource@zeiss.com referencing
your product's name, version, and manufacturing ZEISS entity.

===============================================================================

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| FFmpeg 4.4.1 (used under  and LGPL-2.1+)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
# License

Most files in FFmpeg are under the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1
or later (LGPL v2.1+). Read the file `COPYING.LGPLv2.1` for details. Some other
files have MIT/X11/BSD-style licenses. In combination the LGPL v2.1+ applies to
FFmpeg.

Some optional parts of FFmpeg are licensed under the GNU General Public License
version 2 or later (GPL v2+). See the file `COPYING.GPLv2` for details. None of
these parts are used by default, you have to explicitly pass `--enable-gpl` to
configure to activate them. In this case, FFmpeg's license changes to GPL v2+.

Specifically, the GPL parts of FFmpeg are:

- libpostproc
- optional x86 optimization in the files
    - `libavcodec/x86/flac_dsp_gpl.asm`
    - `libavcodec/x86/idct_mmx.c`
    - `libavfilter/x86/vf_removegrain.asm`
- the following building and testing tools
    - `compat/solaris/make_sunver.pl`
    - `doc/t2h.pm`
    - `doc/texi2pod.pl`
    - `libswresample/tests/swresample.c`
    - `tests/checkasm/*`
    - `tests/tiny_ssim.c`
- the following filters in libavfilter:
    - `signature_lookup.c`
    - `vf_blackframe.c`
    - `vf_boxblur.c`
    - `vf_colormatrix.c`
    - `vf_cover_rect.c`
    - `vf_cropdetect.c`
    - `vf_delogo.c`
    - `vf_eq.c`
    - `vf_find_rect.c`
    - `vf_fspp.c`
    - `vf_histeq.c`
    - `vf_hqdn3d.c`
    - `vf_kerndeint.c`
    - `vf_lensfun.c` (GPL version 3 or later)
    - `vf_mcdeint.c`
    - `vf_mpdecimate.c`
    - `vf_nnedi.c`
    - `vf_owdenoise.c`
    - `vf_perspective.c`
    - `vf_phase.c`
    - `vf_pp.c`
    - `vf_pp7.c`
    - `vf_pullup.c`
    - `vf_repeatfields.c`
    - `vf_sab.c`
    - `vf_signature.c`
    - `vf_smartblur.c`
    - `vf_spp.c`
    - `vf_stereo3d.c`
    - `vf_super2xsai.c`
    - `vf_tinterlace.c`
    - `vf_uspp.c`
    - `vf_vaguedenoiser.c`
    - `vsrc_mptestsrc.c`

Should you, for whatever reason, prefer to use version 3 of the (L)GPL, then
the configure parameter `--enable-version3` will activate this licensing option
for you. Read the file `COPYING.LGPLv3` or, if you have enabled GPL parts,
`COPYING.GPLv3` to learn the exact legal terms that apply in this case.

There are a handful of files under other licensing terms, namely:

* The files `libavcodec/jfdctfst.c`, `libavcodec/jfdctint_template.c` and
  `libavcodec/jrevdct.c` are taken from libjpeg, see the top of the files for
  licensing details. Specifically note that you must credit the IJG in the
  documentation accompanying your program if you only distribute executables.
  You must also indicate any changes including additions and deletions to
  those three files in the documentation.
* `tests/reference.pnm` is under the expat license.


## External libraries

FFmpeg can be combined with a number of external libraries, which sometimes
affect the licensing of binaries resulting from the combination.

### Compatible libraries

The following libraries are under GPL version 2:
- avisynth
- frei0r
- libcdio
- libdavs2
- librubberband
- libvidstab
- libx264
- libx265
- libxavs
- libxavs2
- libxvid

When combining them with FFmpeg, FFmpeg needs to be licensed as GPL as well by
passing `--enable-gpl` to configure.

The following libraries are under LGPL version 3:
- gmp
- libaribb24
- liblensfun

When combining them with FFmpeg, use the configure option `--enable-version3` to
upgrade FFmpeg to the LGPL v3.

The VMAF, mbedTLS, RK MPI, OpenCORE and VisualOn libraries are under the Apache License
2.0. That license is incompatible with the LGPL v2.1 and the GPL v2, but not with
version 3 of those licenses. So to combine these libraries with FFmpeg, the
license version needs to be upgraded by passing `--enable-version3` to configure.

The smbclient library is under the GPL v3, to combine it with FFmpeg,
the options `--enable-gpl` and `--enable-version3` have to be passed to
configure to upgrade FFmpeg to the GPL v3.

### Incompatible libraries

There are certain libraries you can combine with FFmpeg whose licenses are not
compatible with the GPL and/or the LGPL. If you wish to enable these
libraries, even in circumstances that their license may be incompatible, pass
`--enable-nonfree` to configure. This will cause the resulting binary to be
unredistributable.

The Fraunhofer FDK AAC and OpenSSL libraries are under licenses which are
incompatible with the GPLv2 and v3. To the best of our knowledge, they are
compatible with the LGPL.

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

GNU Lesser General Public License
=================================

Version 2.1, February 1999

      Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

      59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

      Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies

      of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

      [This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts

      as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence

      the version number 2.1.]


Preamble
--------

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are informed
that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the original
version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected by
problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the ordinary
General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in order to
permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License therefore
permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.
The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other
code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing
non-free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto standard.
To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library. A more
frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used non-free
libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to
free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.


TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
---------------------------------------------------------------

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying
it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public License (also
called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as
to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been
distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the
Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files,
plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the
Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the
Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer
of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the
absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
      that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
      third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of
      data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
      than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make
      a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not
      supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs
      whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful.

      (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose
      that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
      Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used
      by this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it,
      the square root function must still compute square roots.)

      These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
      sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be
      reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then
      this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you
      distribute them as separate works. But when you distribute the same
      sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the
      distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose
      permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to
      each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

      Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
      rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise
      the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works
      based on the Library.

      In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
      the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage
      or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of
      this License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If a
newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make any
other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so
the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into
a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is
designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called
a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative
work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part
of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of the
Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially
significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is
itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by
law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and
accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables containing
that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with
the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work
that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of
the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that
the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You must
supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays copyright
notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as
well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License. Also, you
must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
      source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the
      work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the
      work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete
      machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source
      code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a
      modified executable containing the modified Library. (It is understood that
      the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will
      not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified
      definitions.)

      b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
      suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
      already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
      functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a
      modified version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the
      modified version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was
      made with.

      c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years,
      to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for
      a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
      designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified
      materials from the same place.

      e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
      that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other
proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system. Such a
contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an
executable that you distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the
      Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
      distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of
      it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
      accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have
received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept
this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work
based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library
or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and
conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties with this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on
you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the
conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your
obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a
consequence you may not distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those
who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you
could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from
distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many people
have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is
up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software
through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit geographical
distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is
permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case, this
License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies a
version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you
have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or
of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library
does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever
published by the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to
ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS


How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries
----------------------------------------------

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

      one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.

      Copyright (C) year name of author

      This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or

      modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public

      License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either

      version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

      This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

      but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

      MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU

      Lesser General Public License for more details.

      You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public

      License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software

      Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is a
sample; alter the names:

      Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

      the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

      by James Random Hacker.

      signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990

      Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| GMP 6.2.1 (used under  and LGPL-3.0+)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Copyright 1991, 1996, 1999, 2000, 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Authors of GNU MP (in chronological order of initial contribution)

Torbjörn Granlund	Main author

John Amanatides		Original version of mpz/pprime_p.c

Paul Zimmermann		mpn/generic/mul_fft.c, now defunct dc_divrem_n.c,
			rootrem.c, old mpz/powm.c, old toom3 code.

Ken Weber		Now defunct mpn/generic/bdivmod.c, old mpn/generic/gcd.c

Bennet Yee		Previous versions of mpz/jacobi.c mpz/legendre.c

Andreas Schwab		mpn/m68k/lshift.asm, mpn/m68k/rshift.asm

Robert Harley		Old mpn/generic/mul_n.c, previous versions of files in
			mpn/arm

Linus Nordberg		Random number framework, original autoconfery

Kent Boortz		MacOS 9 port, now defunct.

Kevin Ryde		Most x86 assembly, new autoconfery, and countless other
			things (please see the GMP manual for complete list)

Gerardo Ballabio	gmpxx.h and C++ istream input

Pedro Gimeno		Mersenne Twister random generator, other random number
			revisions

Jason Moxham		Previous versions of mpz/fac_ui.c and gen-fac_ui.c

Niels Möller		gen-jacobitab.c,
			mpn/generic/hgcd2.c, hgcd.c, hgcd_step.c,
			hgcd_appr.c, hgcd_matrix.c, hgcd_reduce.c,
			gcd.c, gcd_11.c, gcd_22.c, gcdext.c, matrix22_mul.c,
			gcdext_1.c, gcd_subdiv_step.c, gcd_lehmer.c,
			gcdext_subdiv_step.c, gcdext_lehmer.c,
			jacobi_2.c, jacbase.c, hgcd_jacobi.c, hgcd2_jacobi.c,
			matrix22_mul1_inverse_vector.c,
			toom_interpolate_7pts, mulmod_bnm1.c, dcpi1_bdiv_qr.c,
			dcpi1_bdiv_q.c, sbpi1_bdiv_qr.c, sbpi1_bdiv_q.c,
			sec_invert.c,
			toom_eval_dgr3_pm1.c, toom_eval_dgr3_pm2.c,
			toom_eval_pm1.c, toom_eval_pm2.c, toom_eval_pm2exp.c,
			divexact.c, mod_1_1.c, div_qr_2.c,
			div_qr_2n_pi1.c, div_qr_2u_pi1.c, broot.c,
			brootinv.c,
			mpn/x86/k7/invert_limb.asm, mod_1_1.asm,
			mpn/x86_64/invert_limb.asm,
			invert_limb_table.asm, mod_1_1.asm,
			div_qr_2n_pi1.asm, div_qr_2u_pi1.asm,
			mpn/x86_64/core2/aorsmul_1.asm,
			mpz/nextprime.c, divexact.c, gcd.c, gcdext.c,
			jacobi.c, combit.c, mini-gmp/mini-gmp.c.

Marco Bodrato		mpn/generic/toom44_mul.c, toom4_sqr.c, toom53_mul.c,
			toom62_mul.c, toom43_mul.c, toom52_mul.c, toom54_mul.c,
			toom_interpolate_6pts.c, toom_couple_handling.c,
			toom63_mul.c, toom_interpolate_8pts.c,
			toom6h_mul.c, toom6_sqr.c, toom_interpolate_12pts.c,
			toom8h_mul.c, toom8_sqr.c, toom_interpolate_16pts.c,
			mulmod_bnm1.c, sqrmod_bnm1.c, nussbaumer_mul.c,
			toom_eval_pm2.c, toom_eval_pm2rexp.c,
			fib2m.c, strongfibo.c,
			mullo_n.c, sqrlo.c, invert.c, invertappr.c;
			mpn/x86/atom/aors_n.asm, aorslshC_n.asm,
			aorrlsh{1,2,C}_n.asm, aorsmul_1.asm, logops_n.asm,
			sublsh2_n.asm, rshift.asm; primesieve.c;
			mpz/fac_ui.c, 2fac_ui.c, mfac_uiui.c, oddfac_1.c,
			primorial_ui.c, prodlimbs.c, bin_ui.c,
			lucmod.c, stronglucas.c,
			goetgheluck_bin_uiui.c; mini-gmp/mini-mpq.c.

David Harvey		mpn/generic/add_err1_n.c, add_err2_n.c,
			add_err3_n.c, sub_err1_n.c, sub_err2_n.c,
			sub_err3_n.c, mulmid_basecase.c, mulmid_n.c,
			toom42_mulmid.c,
			mpn/x86_64/mul_basecase.asm, aors_err1_n.asm,
			aors_err2_n.asm, aors_err3_n.asm,
			mulmid_basecase.asm,
			mpn/x86_64/core2/aors_err1_n.asm.

Martin Boij		mpn/generic/perfpow.c

Marc Glisse		gmpxx.h improvements

David Miller		mpn/sparc32/ultrasparct1/{addmul_1,mul_1,submul_1}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/ultrasparct3/{mul_1,addmul_1,submul_1}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/ultrasparct3/{add_n,sub_n}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/ultrasparct3/{popcount,hamdist}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/ultrasparct3/cnd_aors_n.asm
			mpn/sparc64/{rshift,lshift,lshiftc}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/tabselect.asm

Mark Sofroniou		mpn/generic/mul_fft.c type cleanup.

Ulrich Weigand		Changes to support powerpc64le:
			configure.ac, mpn/powerpc64/{elf,aix,darwin}.m4,
			mpn/powerpc32/{darwin,elf}.m4,
			mpn/powerpc64/mode64/{dive_1,divrem_1,divrem_2}.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/mode64/{gcd_1,invert_limb,mode1o}.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/mode64/{mod_1_1,mod_1_4}.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/mode64/p7/gcd_1.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/p6/{lshift,lshiftc,rshift}.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/vmx/popcount.asm.


This file is part of the GNU MP Library.

The GNU MP Library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of either:

  * the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
    Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
    option) any later version.

or

  * the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
    Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
    later version.

or both in parallel, as here.

The GNU MP Library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

You should have received copies of the GNU General Public License and the
GNU Lesser General Public License along with the GNU MP Library.  If not,
see https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

Authors of GNU MP (in chronological order of initial contribution)

Torbjörn Granlund	Main author

John Amanatides		Original version of mpz/pprime_p.c

Paul Zimmermann		mpn/generic/mul_fft.c, now defunct dc_divrem_n.c,
			rootrem.c, old mpz/powm.c, old toom3 code.

Ken Weber		Now defunct mpn/generic/bdivmod.c, old mpn/generic/gcd.c

Bennet Yee		Previous versions of mpz/jacobi.c mpz/legendre.c

Andreas Schwab		mpn/m68k/lshift.asm, mpn/m68k/rshift.asm

Robert Harley		Old mpn/generic/mul_n.c, previous versions of files in
			mpn/arm

Linus Nordberg		Random number framework, original autoconfery

Kent Boortz		MacOS 9 port, now defunct.

Kevin Ryde		Most x86 assembly, new autoconfery, and countless other
			things (please see the GMP manual for complete list)

Gerardo Ballabio	gmpxx.h and C++ istream input

Pedro Gimeno		Mersenne Twister random generator, other random number
			revisions

Jason Moxham		Previous versions of mpz/fac_ui.c and gen-fac_ui.c

Niels Möller		gen-jacobitab.c,
			mpn/generic/hgcd2.c, hgcd.c, hgcd_step.c,
			hgcd_appr.c, hgcd_matrix.c, hgcd_reduce.c,
			gcd.c, gcd_11.c, gcd_22.c, gcdext.c, matrix22_mul.c,
			gcdext_1.c, gcd_subdiv_step.c, gcd_lehmer.c,
			gcdext_subdiv_step.c, gcdext_lehmer.c,
			jacobi_2.c, jacbase.c, hgcd_jacobi.c, hgcd2_jacobi.c,
			matrix22_mul1_inverse_vector.c,
			toom_interpolate_7pts, mulmod_bnm1.c, dcpi1_bdiv_qr.c,
			dcpi1_bdiv_q.c, sbpi1_bdiv_qr.c, sbpi1_bdiv_q.c,
			sec_invert.c,
			toom_eval_dgr3_pm1.c, toom_eval_dgr3_pm2.c,
			toom_eval_pm1.c, toom_eval_pm2.c, toom_eval_pm2exp.c,
			divexact.c, mod_1_1.c, div_qr_2.c,
			div_qr_2n_pi1.c, div_qr_2u_pi1.c, broot.c,
			brootinv.c,
			mpn/x86/k7/invert_limb.asm, mod_1_1.asm,
			mpn/x86_64/invert_limb.asm,
			invert_limb_table.asm, mod_1_1.asm,
			div_qr_2n_pi1.asm, div_qr_2u_pi1.asm,
			mpn/x86_64/core2/aorsmul_1.asm,
			mpz/nextprime.c, divexact.c, gcd.c, gcdext.c,
			jacobi.c, combit.c, mini-gmp/mini-gmp.c.

Marco Bodrato		mpn/generic/toom44_mul.c, toom4_sqr.c, toom53_mul.c,
			toom62_mul.c, toom43_mul.c, toom52_mul.c, toom54_mul.c,
			toom_interpolate_6pts.c, toom_couple_handling.c,
			toom63_mul.c, toom_interpolate_8pts.c,
			toom6h_mul.c, toom6_sqr.c, toom_interpolate_12pts.c,
			toom8h_mul.c, toom8_sqr.c, toom_interpolate_16pts.c,
			mulmod_bnm1.c, sqrmod_bnm1.c, nussbaumer_mul.c,
			toom_eval_pm2.c, toom_eval_pm2rexp.c,
			fib2m.c, strongfibo.c,
			mullo_n.c, sqrlo.c, invert.c, invertappr.c;
			mpn/x86/atom/aors_n.asm, aorslshC_n.asm,
			aorrlsh{1,2,C}_n.asm, aorsmul_1.asm, logops_n.asm,
			sublsh2_n.asm, rshift.asm; primesieve.c;
			mpz/fac_ui.c, 2fac_ui.c, mfac_uiui.c, oddfac_1.c,
			primorial_ui.c, prodlimbs.c, bin_ui.c,
			lucmod.c, stronglucas.c,
			goetgheluck_bin_uiui.c; mini-gmp/mini-mpq.c.

David Harvey		mpn/generic/add_err1_n.c, add_err2_n.c,
			add_err3_n.c, sub_err1_n.c, sub_err2_n.c,
			sub_err3_n.c, mulmid_basecase.c, mulmid_n.c,
			toom42_mulmid.c,
			mpn/x86_64/mul_basecase.asm, aors_err1_n.asm,
			aors_err2_n.asm, aors_err3_n.asm,
			mulmid_basecase.asm,
			mpn/x86_64/core2/aors_err1_n.asm.

Martin Boij		mpn/generic/perfpow.c

Marc Glisse		gmpxx.h improvements

David Miller		mpn/sparc32/ultrasparct1/{addmul_1,mul_1,submul_1}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/ultrasparct3/{mul_1,addmul_1,submul_1}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/ultrasparct3/{add_n,sub_n}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/ultrasparct3/{popcount,hamdist}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/ultrasparct3/cnd_aors_n.asm
			mpn/sparc64/{rshift,lshift,lshiftc}.asm
			mpn/sparc64/tabselect.asm

Mark Sofroniou		mpn/generic/mul_fft.c type cleanup.

Ulrich Weigand		Changes to support powerpc64le:
			configure.ac, mpn/powerpc64/{elf,aix,darwin}.m4,
			mpn/powerpc32/{darwin,elf}.m4,
			mpn/powerpc64/mode64/{dive_1,divrem_1,divrem_2}.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/mode64/{gcd_1,invert_limb,mode1o}.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/mode64/{mod_1_1,mod_1_4}.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/mode64/p7/gcd_1.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/p6/{lshift,lshiftc,rshift}.asm,
			mpn/powerpc64/vmx/popcount.asm.

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

		   GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.


  This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates
the terms and conditions of version 3 of the GNU General Public
License, supplemented by the additional permissions listed below.

  0. Additional Definitions. 

  As used herein, "this License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, and the "GNU GPL" refers to version 3 of the GNU
General Public License.

  "The Library" refers to a covered work governed by this License,
other than an Application or a Combined Work as defined below.

  An "Application" is any work that makes use of an interface provided
by the Library, but which is not otherwise based on the Library.
Defining a subclass of a class defined by the Library is deemed a mode
of using an interface provided by the Library.

  A "Combined Work" is a work produced by combining or linking an
Application with the Library.  The particular version of the Library
with which the Combined Work was made is also called the "Linked
Version".

  The "Minimal Corresponding Source" for a Combined Work means the
Corresponding Source for the Combined Work, excluding any source code
for portions of the Combined Work that, considered in isolation, are
based on the Application, and not on the Linked Version.

  The "Corresponding Application Code" for a Combined Work means the
object code and/or source code for the Application, including any data
and utility programs needed for reproducing the Combined Work from the
Application, but excluding the System Libraries of the Combined Work.

  1. Exception to Section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License
without being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  2. Conveying Modified Versions.

  If you modify a copy of the Library, and, in your modifications, a
facility refers to a function or data to be supplied by an Application
that uses the facility (other than as an argument passed when the
facility is invoked), then you may convey a copy of the modified
version:

   a) under this License, provided that you make a good faith effort to
   ensure that, in the event an Application does not supply the
   function or data, the facility still operates, and performs
   whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful, or

   b) under the GNU GPL, with none of the additional permissions of
   this License applicable to that copy.

  3. Object Code Incorporating Material from Library Header Files.

  The object code form of an Application may incorporate material from
a header file that is part of the Library.  You may convey such object
code under terms of your choice, provided that, if the incorporated
material is not limited to numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, or small macros, inline functions and templates
(ten or fewer lines in length), you do both of the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the object code that the
   Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
   covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the object code with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
   document.

  4. Combined Works.

  You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice that,
taken together, effectively do not restrict modification of the
portions of the Library contained in the Combined Work and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications, if you also do each of
the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work that
   the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
   covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the Combined Work with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
   document.

   c) For a Combined Work that displays copyright notices during
   execution, include the copyright notice for the Library among
   these notices, as well as a reference directing the user to the
   copies of the GNU GPL and this license document.

   d) Do one of the following:

       0) Convey the Minimal Corresponding Source under the terms of this
       License, and the Corresponding Application Code in a form
       suitable for, and under terms that permit, the user to
       recombine or relink the Application with a modified version of
       the Linked Version to produce a modified Combined Work, in the
       manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL for conveying
       Corresponding Source.

       1) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
       Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (a) uses at run time
       a copy of the Library already present on the user's computer
       system, and (b) will operate properly with a modified version
       of the Library that is interface-compatible with the Linked
       Version. 

   e) Provide Installation Information, but only if you would otherwise
   be required to provide such information under section 6 of the
   GNU GPL, and only to the extent that such information is
   necessary to install and execute a modified version of the
   Combined Work produced by recombining or relinking the
   Application with a modified version of the Linked Version. (If
   you use option 4d0, the Installation Information must accompany
   the Minimal Corresponding Source and Corresponding Application
   Code. If you use option 4d1, you must provide the Installation
   Information in the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL
   for conveying Corresponding Source.)

  5. Combined Libraries.

  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side by side in a single library together with other library
facilities that are not Applications and are not covered by this
License, and convey such a combined library under terms of your
choice, if you do both of the following:

   a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based
   on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities,
   conveyed under the terms of this License.

   b) Give prominent notice with the combined library that part of it
   is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
   accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  6. Revised Versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the GNU Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Library as you received it specifies that a certain numbered version
of the GNU Lesser General Public License "or any later version"
applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that published version or of any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library as you
received it does not specify a version number of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, you may choose any version of the GNU Lesser
General Public License ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Library as you received it specifies that a proxy can decide
whether future versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License shall
apply, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of any version is
permanent authorization for you to choose that version for the
Library.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| GNU FriBidi 1.0.11 (used under  and LGPL-2.1+)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Behdad Esfahbod <behdad@gnu.org>
#
# Behdad Esfahbod maintained the entire 0.19 series. He designed, and
# implemented most of what is in FriBidi today.
#

Dov Grobgeld <dov.grobgeld@gmail.com>
#
# Dov Grobgeld originally wrote FriBidi.  The 0.1.* releases were all done
# by him.  After the a long time of not being involved, Dov received
# back the maintenance of the package in time for the 1.0 release.
# He did the entire algorithmic work to support the changes made
# to the Unicode algorithm in the Unicode 6.3 standard.
#

Roozbeh Pournader <roozbeh@gnu.org>
#
# Roozbeh Pournader hasn't contributed much code to FriBidi personally; but
# has maintained, promoted, and supported the project for a while.  He has
# helped with making GNU FriBidi standards compliant, and has sometimes
# lobbied with the Unicode Consortium when needed.  Roozbeh was supposed to
# be a co-maintainer of GNU FriBidi, but he's not doing that yet.
#

Khaled Hosny <khaledhosny@eglug.org>
#
# Khaled Hosny has done lots of cleanup and autoconfig work.

# Note: Other people have contributed significant amounts of code, but
# usually the code has faded out because of restructuring and redesigning
# things around GNU FriBidi.  As an example, the FriBidiEnv patch by Omer
# Zak, made itself into FriBidi CVS for a couple of years, but was finally
# implemented in a better way by Behdad.
#
# Note: GNU getopt is distributed with and used in GNU FriBidi under bin/, but
# is not part of GNU FriBidi.
#
# Note: Parts of the Unicode Character Database are distributed with and used
# in GNU FriBidi under gen.tab/unidata/, but are not part of GNU FriBidi.
#

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts
 as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence
 the version number 2.1.]

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

		  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.
  
  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| OpenJPEG v2.4.0 (used under  and BSD-2-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- Copyright notice(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
"(c) 2006, M
 * All rights reserved"
"Copyright 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler \";
/*
  If you use the zlib library in a product, an acknowledgment is welcome
  in the documentation of your product. If for some reason you cannot"
"Copyright 1995-2013 Mark Adler \";
/*
  If you use the zlib library in a product, an acknowledgment is welcome
  in the documentation of your product. If for some reason you cannot
  include such an ac"
"Copyright 1998-2001 by Neil Hodgson <neilh@scintilla.org>
// Modified for Artistic Style by Jim Pattee.
// Compute the length of an output utf-16 file given a utf-8 file.
// Return value is the size i"
"Copyright 1998-2001 by Neil Hodgson <neilh@scintilla.org>
// Modified for Artistic Style by Jim Pattee.
// Compute the length of an output utf-8 file given a utf-16 file.
// Input inLen is the size in"
"Copyright 2001, softSurfer (www.softsurfer.com)
    This code may be freely used and modified for any purpose
    providing that this copyright notice is included with it.
    SoftSurfer makes no warr"
"COPYRIGHT		33432	/"
"Copyright    = 3
} cmsInfoType;"
"Copyright BoxType=\\"cprt\\"> Instance=\\"
                i + 1);
        int16_to_3packedchars((short int)movie->copyright_languages[i], buf);
        fprintf(xmlout,  \"        <Language>%s</Language>\"
"Copyright BoxType=\\"cprt\\"> Instance=\\"
                i + 1);
        int16_to_3packedchars((short int)track->copyright_languages[i], buf);
        fprintf(xmlout,  \"          <Language>%s</Language"
"Copyright (c) 1985, 1986 The Regents of the University of California.
 * All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 1987, 1993, 1994
 *  The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 1987, 1993, 1994
 *  The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 1988-1996 Sam Leffler
"
"Copyright (c) 1988-1996 Sam Leffler\nCopyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.\"
/*
 * This define can be used in code that requires
 * compilation-related definitions specific to a
 * version or "
"Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
"
"Copyright (C) 1990, 1995  Frank D. Cringle.
 */
#include \"tiff.h\"
"
"Copyright (c) 1990-1997 Sam Leffler
"
"Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provid"
"Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Sam Leffler
"
"Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provid"
"Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provide"
"Copyright (c) 1992-1997 Sam Leffler
"
"Copyright (c) 1992-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provid"
"Copyright (c) 1994-1997 Sam Leffler
"
"Copyright (c) 1994-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provid"
"Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.
"
"Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.)
"
"Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.\";
#  endif
#endif
}
"
"Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.\" \
      PNG_STRING_NEWLINE;
#  else
   return \"libpng version 1.6.25 - September 1, 2016\
"
"Copyright (c) 1995-1997 Sam Leffler
"
"Copyright (c) 1995-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provid"
"Copyright (c) 1995-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provide"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2003, 2010 Jean-loup Gailly.
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2003, 2010 Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2005, 2010, 2011, 2012 Jean-loup Gailly.
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2005, 2010 Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Jean-loup Gailly.
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2006, 2010, 2011, 2012 Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 *
 * Thanks to Rodney Brown <rbrown64@csc.com.au> for his contribution o"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2008, 2010, 2013 Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2009 Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2011 Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2012 Jean-loup Gailly
 * detect_data_type() function provided freely by Cosmin Truta, 2006
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2012 Jean-loup Gailly
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2012 Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly.
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1995-2013 Mark Adler
 * For conditions of distribution and use, see copyright notice in zlib.h
 */
"
"Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Andreas Dilger\
"
"Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger)
"
"Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Andreas Dilger, are derived from libpng-0.88,
"
"Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Andreas Dilger\" PNG_STRING_NEWLINE \
"
"Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Sam Leffler
"
"Copyright (c) 1996 Pixar
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
 * that (i) the abo"
"Copyright (c) 1997 Greg Ward Larson
"
"Copyright (c) 1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
 *"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, are derived from
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2002,2004,2006-2013 Glenn Randers-Pehrson
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2002,2004,2006-2014,2016 Glenn Randers-Pehrson
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2002,2004,2006-2016 Glenn Randers-Pehrson\
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2002,2004,2006-2016 Glenn Randers-Pehrson
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2002,2004,2006-2016 Glenn Randers-Pehrson\" \
      PNG_STRING_NEWLINE \
"
"Copyright (C) 1998-2002  Toni Ronkko
"
"Copyright:   (c) 1998-2002 wxWidgets team
"
"Copyright:   (c) 1998-2005 Robert Roebling
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2013 Marti Maria Saguer
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2015 Glenn Randers-Pehrson
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2016 Glenn Randers-Pehrson
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2016 Marti Maria Saguer
"
"Copyright (c) 1998-2016 Marti Maria Saguer
"
"Copyright:   (c) 1999 Vadim Zeitlin <zeitlin@dptmaths.ens-cachan.fr>
"
"Copyright (c) 2000-2002, 2004, 2006-2016 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, are
"
"Copyright (c) 2001-2003, David Janssens
"
"Copyright (c) 2001-2003, David Janssens
"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2003, Yannick Verschueren
"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2003, Yannick Verschueren
"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2004,  Communications and remote sensing Laboratory, Universite catholique de Louvain, Belgium
* All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2005, Communications and remote sensing Laboratory, Universite catholique de Louvain, Belgium
"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2005, Communications and remote sensing Laboratory, Universite catholique de Louvain, Belgium
 * All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2007, Patrick Piscaglia, Telemis s.a.
 * All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Professor Benoit Macq
"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Professor Benoit Macq
"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Professor Benoit Macq
 * All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Universite catholique de Louvain (UCL), Belgium
"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Universite catholique de Louvain (UCL), Belgium
"
"Copyright (C) 2002 Scott Kirkwood.
// Modified for Artistic Style by Jim Pattee.
// Convert a utf-16 file to utf-8.
size_t ASEncoding::utf16ToUtf8(char* utf16In, size_t inLen, bool isBigEndian,
      "
"Copyright (C) 2002 Scott Kirkwood.
// Modified for Artistic Style by Jim Pattee.
// Convert a utf-8 file to utf-16.
size_t ASEncoding::utf8ToUtf16(char* utf8In, size_t inLen, bool isBigEndian, char* u"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2004,  Communications and remote sensing Laboratory, Universite catholique de Louvain, Belgium
* All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2004, Francois-Olivier Devaux
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2004, Yannick Verschueren
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2005, Francois Devaux and Antonin Descampe
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2007, Francois-Olivier Devaux
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2007, Francois-Olivier Devaux
 * All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2007, Francois-Olivier Devaux and Antonin Descampe
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2007, Francois-Olivier Devaux and Antonin Descampe
* All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2009, Francois-Olivier Devaux
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2014, Antonin Descampe
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2014, Antonin Descampe
"

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
# Authors of OpenJPEG

David Janssens designed and implemented the first version of OpenJPEG.

Kaori Hagihara designed and implemented the first version of OpenJPIP.

Jerome Fimes implemented the alpha version of OpenJPEG 2.0.

Giuseppe Baruffa added the JPWL functionalities.

Mickaël Savinaud implemented the final OpenJPEG 2.0 version based on a big merge between 1.5 version and alpha version of 2.0.

Mathieu Malaterre participated to the OpenJPEG 2.0 version and improved the libraries and utilities. 

Yannick Verschueren, 
Herve Drolon, 
Francois-Olivier Devaux, 
Antonin Descampe
    improved the libraries and utilities.

# OpenJPEG THANKS file

Many people have contributed to OpenJPEG by reporting problems, suggesting various improvements,
or submitting actual code. Here is a list of these people. Help me keep
it complete and exempt of errors.

* Giuseppe Baruffa
* Ben Boeckel
* Aaron Boxer
* David Burken
* Matthieu Darbois
* Rex Dieter
* Herve Drolon
* Antonin Descampe
* Francois-Olivier Devaux
* Parvatha Elangovan
* Jerôme Fimes
* Bob Friesenhahn
* Kaori Hagihara
* Luc Hermitte
* Luis Ibanez
* David Janssens
* Hans Johnson
* Callum Lerwick
* Ke Liu (Tencent's Xuanwu LAB)
* Sebastien Lugan
* Benoit Macq
* Mathieu Malaterre
* Julien Malik
* Arnaud Maye
* Vincent Nicolas
* Aleksander Nikolic (Cisco Talos)
* Glenn Pearson
* Even Rouault
* Dzonatas Sol
* Winfried Szukalski
* Vincent Torri
* Yannick Verschueren
* Peter Wimmer

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

/*
 * The copyright in this software is being made available under the 2-clauses 
 * BSD License, included below. This software may be subject to other third 
 * party and contributor rights, including patent rights, and no such rights
 * are granted under this license.
 *
 * Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Universite catholique de Louvain (UCL), Belgium
 * Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Professor Benoit Macq
 * Copyright (c) 2003-2014, Antonin Descampe
 * Copyright (c) 2003-2009, Francois-Olivier Devaux
 * Copyright (c) 2005, Herve Drolon, FreeImage Team
 * Copyright (c) 2002-2003, Yannick Verschueren
 * Copyright (c) 2001-2003, David Janssens
 * Copyright (c) 2011-2012, Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales (CNES), France 
 * Copyright (c) 2012, CS Systemes d'Information, France
 *
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS `AS IS'
 * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
 * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
 * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
 * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
 * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
 * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 */

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| OpenSSL 1.1.1m (used under  and SSLeay License and The Open SSL License)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
# This is the list of OpenSSL authors for copyright purposes.
#
# This does not necessarily list everyone who has contributed code, since in
# some cases, their employer may be the copyright holder.  To see the full list
# of contributors, see the revision history in source control.
OpenSSL Software Services, Inc.
OpenSSL Software Foundation, Inc.

# Individuals
Andy Polyakov
Ben Laurie
Ben Kaduk
Bernd Edlinger
Bodo Möller
David Benjamin
David von Oheimb
Dmitry Belyavskiy (Дмитрий Белявский)
Emilia Käsper
Eric Young
Geoff Thorpe
Holger Reif
Kurt Roeckx
Lutz Jänicke
Mark J. Cox
Matt Caswell
Matthias St. Pierre
Nicola Tuveri
Nils Larsch
Patrick Steuer
Paul Dale
Paul C. Sutton
Paul Yang
Ralf S. Engelschall
Rich Salz
Richard Levitte
Shane Lontis
Stephen Henson
Steve Marquess
Tim Hudson
Tomáš Mráz
Ulf Möller
Viktor Dukhovni

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

SSLeay License
==============


Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL. This library
is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the following conditions
are aheared to. The following conditions apply to all code found in this
distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.
The SSL documentation included with this distribution is covered by the same
copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).

Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code are
not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be
given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can be in
the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online or
textual) provided with the package. Redistribution and use in source and binary
forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list
    of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
    display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes cryptographic
    software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)". The word 'cryptographic'
    can be left out if the rouines from the library being used are not
    cryptographic related :-).

  4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the
    apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This
    product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"


THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.The licence and distribution terms for any publically available
version or derivative of this code cannot be changed. i.e. this code cannot
simply be copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU
Public Licence.

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

OpenSSL
=======


Copyright (c) 1998-2000 The OpenSSL Project. All rights reserved.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
    list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
    display the following acknowledgment: This product includes software
    developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org)

  4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
    endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written
    permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org

  5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may
    "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the
    OpenSSL Project.

  6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
    acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL
    Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org)"




THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. This product includes cryptographic software
written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com). This product includes software written
by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| The FreeType Project 2.11.1 (used under  and FTL)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 by
David Turner, Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg.

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

FREETYPE LICENSES
-----------------

The FreeType  2 font  engine is  copyrighted work  and cannot  be used
legally without  a software  license.  In order  to make  this project
usable to  a vast majority of  developers, we distribute it  under two
mutually exclusive open-source licenses.

This means that *you* must choose  *one* of the two licenses described
below, then obey all its terms and conditions when using FreeType 2 in
any of your projects or products.

  - The FreeType License,  found in the file  `docs/FTL.TXT`, which is
    similar to the  original BSD license *with*  an advertising clause
    that forces  you to explicitly  cite the FreeType project  in your
    product's  documentation.  All  details are  in the  license file.
    This license is suited to products which don't use the GNU General
    Public License.

    Note that  this license  is compatible to  the GNU  General Public
    License version 3, but not version 2.

  - The   GNU   General   Public   License   version   2,   found   in
    `docs/GPLv2.TXT`  (any  later  version  can  be  used  also),  for
    programs  which  already  use  the  GPL.  Note  that  the  FTL  is
    incompatible with GPLv2 due to its advertisement clause.

The contributed  BDF and PCF  drivers come  with a license  similar to
that  of the  X Window  System.   It is  compatible to  the above  two
licenses (see files `src/bdf/README`  and `src/pcf/README`).  The same
holds   for   the   source    code   files   `src/base/fthash.c`   and
`include/freetype/internal/fthash.h`; they wer part  of the BDF driver
in earlier FreeType versions.

The gzip  module uses the  zlib license (see  `src/gzip/zlib.h`) which
too is compatible to the above two licenses.

The  MD5 checksum  support  (only used  for  debugging in  development
builds) is in the public domain.


--- end of LICENSE.TXT ---

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| fontconfig 2.13.94 (used under MIT and Public Domain and Unicode Character Database Terms Of Use)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
The MIT License
===============

Copyright (c) <year> <copyright holders>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the
Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the
Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Public domain code is not subject to any license.

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

UCD Terms of Use
================

Disclaimer

The Unicode Character Database is provided as is by Unicode, Inc. No claims are
made as to fitness for any particular purpose. No warranties of any kind are
expressed or implied. The recipient agrees to determine applicability of
information provided. If this file has been purchased on magnetic or optical
media from Unicode, Inc., the sole remedy for any claim will be exchange of
defective media within 90 days of receipt.

This disclaimer is applicable for all other data files accompanying the Unicode
Character Database, some of which have been compiled by the Unicode Consortium,
and some of which have been supplied by other sources.

Limitations on Rights to Redistribute This Data

Recipient is granted the right to make copies in any form for internal
distribution and to freely use the information supplied in the creation of
products supporting the UnicodeTM Standard. The files in the Unicode Character
Database can be redistributed to third parties or other organizations (whether
for profit or not) as long as this notice and the disclaimer notice are retained.
Information can be extracted from these files and used in documentation or
programs, as long as there is an accompanying notice indicating the source.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| libaom v3.2.0 (used under BSD-2-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Copyright (c) 2016, Alliance for Open Media.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
   distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| libass 0.15.2 (used under ISC)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
ISC License

Copyright (C) 2006-2016 libass contributors

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| libiconv v1.16 (used under  and LGPL-2.0+)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Bruno Haible <bruno@clisp.org>

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

		  GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL.  It is
 numbered 2 because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some
specially designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any
other libraries whose authors decide to use it.  You can use it for
your libraries, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if
you distribute copies of the library, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link a program with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients so that they can relink them
with the library, after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright
the library, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
library.  If the library is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original
version, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on
the original authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free
software will individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect
transforming the program into proprietary software.  To prevent this,
we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's
free use or not licensed at all.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary
GNU General Public License, which was designed for utility programs.  This
license, the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain
designated libraries.  This license is quite different from the ordinary
one; be sure to read it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is
the same as in the ordinary license.

  The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that
they blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a
program and simply using it.  Linking a program with a library, without
changing the library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is
analogous to running a utility program or application program.  However, in
a textual and legal sense, the linked executable is a combined work, a
derivative of the original library, and the ordinary General Public License
treats it as such.

  Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General
Public License for libraries did not effectively promote software
sharing, because most developers did not use the libraries.  We
concluded that weaker conditions might promote sharing better.

  However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the
users of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the
libraries themselves.  This Library General Public License is intended to
permit developers of non-free programs to use free libraries, while
preserving your freedom as a user of such programs to change the free
libraries that are incorporated in them.  (We have not seen how to achieve
this as regards changes in header files, but we have achieved it as regards
changes in the actual functions of the Library.)  The hope is that this
will lead to faster development of free libraries.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, while the latter only
works together with the library.

  Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary
General Public License rather than by this special one.

		  GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized
party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Library
General Public License (also called "this License").  Each licensee is
addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.
  
  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the source code distributed need not include anything that is normally
distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Library General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

     Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Library General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free
    Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston,
    MA 02110-1301, USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| libilbc v3.0.3 (used under BSD-3-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- Copyright notice(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
"Copyright 2006 The WebRTC Project Authors. All rights reserved"
"Copyright 2014 The WebRTC Project Authors. All rights reserved"
"Copyright 2016 Google Inc. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright 2016 The WebRTC Project Authors. All rights reserved"
"Copyright 2017 Google Inc. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright 2017 The Abseil Authors.
"
"Copyright 2018 The Abseil Authors.
"
"Copyright 2019 The Abseil Authors.
"
"Copyright 2020 The Abseil Authors.
"
"Copyright 2020 The Abseil Authors
"
"Copyright (c) 2011 The WebRTC project authors. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright(c) 2011 The WebRTC project authors.All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2012 The WebRTC project authors. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2013, The WebRTC project authors. All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2013 The WebRTC project authors. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2014 The WebRTC project authors. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2015 The WebRTC project authors. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2016 The WebRTC project authors. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2017 The WebRTC project authors. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2018 The WebRTC project authors. All Rights Reserved"
"copyright information with your Successive
 * approximation routines, or if I can freely use it for any purpose.
 * Thanks.
 * Kevin
"
"copyright information with your Successive
 * approximation routines, or if I can freely use it for any purpose.
 * Thanks.
 * Kevin
 */
"
"copyright information with your Successive
@ approximation routines, or if I can freely use it for any purpose.
@ Thanks.
@ Kevin"

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Copyright (c) 2013, The WebRTC project authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.

  * Neither the name of Google nor the names of its contributors may
    be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
    without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| libvorbis 1.3.7 (used under  and BSD-3-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Monty <monty@xiph.org>

and the rest of the Xiph.org Foundation.

THIS FILE IS PART OF THE OggVorbis SOFTWARE CODEC SOURCE CODE. USE, DISTRIBUTION AND REPRODUCTION OF THIS LIBRARY SOURCE IS GOVERNED BY A BSD-STYLE SOURCE LICENSE INCLUDED WITH THIS SOURCE IN 'COPYING'. PLEASE READ THESE TERMS BEFORE DISTRIBUTING.

THE OggVorbis SOURCE CODE IS COPYRIGHT (C) 1994-2020 by the Xiph.Org Foundation https://xiph.org/

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Copyright (c) 2002-2020 Xiph.org Foundation

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

- Neither the name of the Xiph.org Foundation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION
OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| libvpx v1.11.0 (used under  and BSD-3-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Aaron Watry <awatry@gmail.com>
Abo Talib Mahfoodh <ab.mahfoodh@gmail.com>
Adam B. Goode <adam.mckee84@gmail.com>
Adrian Grange <agrange@google.com>
Ahmad Sharif <asharif@google.com>
Aidan Welch <aidansw@yahoo.com>
Aleksey Vasenev <margtu-fivt@ya.ru>
Alexander Potapenko <glider@google.com>
Alexander Voronov <avoronov@graphics.cs.msu.ru>
Alexandra Hájková <alexandra.khirnova@gmail.com>
Aℓex Converse <alexconv@twitch.tv>
Alexis Ballier <aballier@gentoo.org>
Alok Ahuja <waveletcoeff@gmail.com>
Alpha Lam <hclam@google.com>
A.Mahfoodh <ab.mahfoodh@gmail.com>
Ami Fischman <fischman@chromium.org>
Andoni Morales Alastruey <ylatuya@gmail.com>
Andres Mejia <mcitadel@gmail.com>
Andrew Lewis <andrewlewis@google.com>
Andrew Russell <anrussell@google.com>
Angie Chen <yunqi@google.com>
Angie Chiang <angiebird@google.com>
Aron Rosenberg <arosenberg@logitech.com>
Attila Nagy <attilanagy@google.com>
Birk Magnussen <birk.magnussen@googlemail.com>
Bohan Li <bohanli@google.com>
Brian Foley <bpfoley@google.com>
Brion Vibber <bvibber@wikimedia.org>
changjun.yang <changjun.yang@intel.com>
Charles 'Buck' Krasic <ckrasic@google.com>
Cheng Chen <chengchen@google.com>
Chi Yo Tsai <chiyotsai@google.com>
chm <chm@rock-chips.com>
Chris Cunningham <chcunningham@chromium.org>
Christian Duvivier <cduvivier@google.com>
Chunbo Hua <chunbo.hua@intel.com>
Clement Courbet <courbet@google.com>
Daniele Castagna <dcastagna@chromium.org>
Daniel Kang <ddkang@google.com>
Daniel Sommermann <dcsommer@gmail.com>
Dan Zhu <zxdan@google.com>
Deb Mukherjee <debargha@google.com>
Deepa K G <deepa.kg@ittiam.com>
Dim Temp <dimtemp0@gmail.com>
Dmitry Kovalev <dkovalev@google.com>
Dragan Mrdjan <dmrdjan@mips.com>
Ed Baker <edward.baker@intel.com>
Ehsan Akhgari <ehsan.akhgari@gmail.com>
Elliott Karpilovsky <elliottk@google.com>
Erik Niemeyer <erik.a.niemeyer@intel.com>
Fabio Pedretti <fabio.ped@libero.it>
Frank Galligan <fgalligan@google.com>
Fredrik Söderquist <fs@opera.com>
Fritz Koenig <frkoenig@google.com>
Fyodor Kyslov <kyslov@google.com>
Gabriel Marin <gmx@chromium.org>
Gaute Strokkenes <gaute.strokkenes@broadcom.com>
Geza Lore <gezalore@gmail.com>
Ghislain MARY <ghislainmary2@gmail.com>
Giuseppe Scrivano <gscrivano@gnu.org>
Gordana Cmiljanovic <gordana.cmiljanovic@imgtec.com>
Gregor Jasny <gjasny@gmail.com>
Guillaume Martres <gmartres@google.com>
Guillermo Ballester Valor <gbvalor@gmail.com>
Hangyu Kuang <hkuang@google.com>
Hanno Böck <hanno@hboeck.de>
Han Shen <shenhan@google.com>
Harish Mahendrakar <harish.mahendrakar@ittiam.com>
Henrik Lundin <hlundin@google.com>
Hien Ho <hienho@google.com>
Hirokazu Honda <hiroh@chromium.org>
Hui Su <huisu@google.com>
Ivan Krasin <krasin@chromium.org>
Ivan Maltz <ivanmaltz@google.com>
Jacek Caban <cjacek@gmail.com>
Jacky Chen <jackychen@google.com>
James Berry <jamesberry@google.com>
James Touton <bekenn@gmail.com>
James Yu <james.yu@linaro.org>
James Zern <jzern@google.com>
Jan Gerber <j@mailb.org>
Jan Kratochvil <jan.kratochvil@redhat.com>
Janne Salonen <jsalonen@google.com>
Jean-Yves Avenard <jyavenard@mozilla.com>
Jeff Faust <jfaust@google.com>
Jeff Muizelaar <jmuizelaar@mozilla.com>
Jeff Petkau <jpet@chromium.org>
Jeremy Leconte <jleconte@google.com>
Jerome Jiang <jianj@google.com>
Jia Jia <jia.jia@linaro.org>
Jian Zhou <zhoujian@google.com>
Jim Bankoski <jimbankoski@google.com>
jinbo <jinbo-hf@loongson.cn>
Jingning Han <jingning@google.com>
Joel Fernandes <joelaf@google.com>
Joey Parrish <joeyparrish@google.com>
Johann Koenig <johannkoenig@google.com>
John Koleszar <jkoleszar@google.com>
Johnny Klonaris <google@jawknee.com>
John Stark <jhnstrk@gmail.com>
Jonathan Wright <jonathan.wright@arm.com>
Jon Kunkee <jkunkee@microsoft.com>
Jorge E. Moreira <jemoreira@google.com>
Joshua Bleecher Snyder <josh@treelinelabs.com>
Joshua Litt <joshualitt@google.com>
Julia Robson <juliamrobson@gmail.com>
Justin Clift <justin@salasaga.org>
Justin Lebar <justin.lebar@gmail.com>
Kaustubh Raste <kaustubh.raste@imgtec.com>
KO Myung-Hun <komh@chollian.net>
Kyle Siefring <kylesiefring@gmail.com>
Lawrence Velázquez <larryv@macports.org>
Linfeng Zhang <linfengz@google.com>
Liu Peng <pengliu.mail@gmail.com>
Lou Quillio <louquillio@google.com>
Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org>
Luc Trudeau <luc@trud.ca>
Makoto Kato <makoto.kt@gmail.com>
Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Marco Paniconi <marpan@google.com>
Mark Mentovai <mark@chromium.org>
Martin Ettl <ettl.martin78@googlemail.com>
Martin Storsjö <martin@martin.st>
Matthew Heaney <matthewjheaney@chromium.org>
Matthias Räncker <theonetruecamper@gmx.de>
Michael Horowitz <mhoro@webrtc.org>
Michael Kohler <michaelkohler@live.com>
Mike Frysinger <vapier@chromium.org>
Mike Hommey <mhommey@mozilla.com>
Mikhal Shemer <mikhal@google.com>
Min Chen <chenm003@gmail.com>
Minghai Shang <minghai@google.com>
Min Ye <yeemmi@google.com>
Mirko Bonadei <mbonadei@google.com>
Moriyoshi Koizumi <mozo@mozo.jp>
Morton Jonuschat <yabawock@gmail.com>
Nathan E. Egge <negge@mozilla.com>
Neil Birkbeck <neil.birkbeck@gmail.com>
Nico Weber <thakis@chromium.org>
Niveditha Rau <niveditha.rau@gmail.com>
Parag Salasakar <img.mips1@gmail.com>
Pascal Massimino <pascal.massimino@gmail.com>
Patrik Westin <patrik.westin@gmail.com>
Paul Wilkins <paulwilkins@google.com>
Pavol Rusnak <stick@gk2.sk>
Paweł Hajdan <phajdan@google.com>
Pengchong Jin <pengchong@google.com>
Peter Boström <pbos@chromium.org>
Peter Collingbourne <pcc@chromium.org>
Peter de Rivaz <peter.derivaz@gmail.com>
Peter Kasting <pkasting@chromium.org>
Philip Jägenstedt <philipj@opera.com>
Priit Laes <plaes@plaes.org>
Rafael Ávila de Espíndola <rafael.espindola@gmail.com>
Rafaël Carré <funman@videolan.org>
Rafael de Lucena Valle <rafaeldelucena@gmail.com>
Rahul Chaudhry <rahulchaudhry@google.com>
Ralph Giles <giles@xiph.org>
Ranjit Kumar Tulabandu <ranjit.tulabandu@ittiam.com>
Raphael Kubo da Costa <raphael.kubo.da.costa@intel.com>
Ravi Chaudhary <ravi.chaudhary@ittiam.com>
Ritu Baldwa <ritu.baldwa@ittiam.com>
Rob Bradford <rob@linux.intel.com>
Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Rui Ueyama <ruiu@google.com>
Sai Deng <sdeng@google.com>
Sami Pietilä <samipietila@google.com>
Sarah Parker <sarahparker@google.com>
Sasi Inguva <isasi@google.com>
Scott Graham <scottmg@chromium.org>
Scott LaVarnway <slavarnway@google.com>
Sean McGovern <gseanmcg@gmail.com>
Sergey Kolomenkin <kolomenkin@gmail.com>
Sergey Silkin <ssilkin@google.com>
Sergey Ulanov <sergeyu@chromium.org>
Shimon Doodkin <helpmepro1@gmail.com>
Shiyou Yin <yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn>
Shubham Tandle <shubham.tandle@ittiam.com>
Shunyao Li <shunyaoli@google.com>
Sreerenj Balachandran <bsreerenj@gmail.com>
Stefan Holmer <holmer@google.com>
Suman Sunkara <sunkaras@google.com>
Supradeep T R <supradeep.tr@ittiam.com>
Sylvestre Ledru <sylvestre@mozilla.com>
Taekhyun Kim <takim@nvidia.com>
Takanori MATSUURA <t.matsuu@gmail.com>
Tamar Levy <tamar.levy@intel.com>
Tao Bai <michaelbai@chromium.org>
Tero Rintaluoma <teror@google.com>
Thijs Vermeir <thijsvermeir@gmail.com>
Tim Kopp <tkopp@google.com>
Timothy B. Terriberry <tterribe@xiph.org>
Tom Finegan <tomfinegan@google.com>
Tristan Matthews <le.businessman@gmail.com>
Urvang Joshi <urvang@google.com>
Venkatarama NG. Avadhani <venkatarama.avadhani@ittiam.com>
Vignesh Venkatasubramanian <vigneshv@google.com>
Vitaly Buka <vitalybuka@chromium.org>
Vlad Tsyrklevich <vtsyrklevich@chromium.org>
Wan-Teh Chang <wtc@google.com>
Wonkap Jang <wonkap@google.com>
xiwei gu <guxiwei-hf@loongson.cn>
Yaowu Xu <yaowu@google.com>
Yi Luo <luoyi@google.com>
Yongzhe Wang <yongzhe@google.com>
Yue Chen <yuec@google.com>
Yun Liu <yliuyliu@google.com>
Yunqing Wang <yunqingwang@google.com>
Yury Gitman <yuryg@google.com>
Zoe Liu <zoeliu@google.com>
Google Inc.
The Mozilla Foundation
The Xiph.Org Foundation

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Copyright (c) 2010, The WebM Project authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.

  * Neither the name of Google, nor the WebM Project, nor the names
    of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
    derived from this software without specific prior written
    permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| libwebp v1.2.1-rc2 (used under  and BSD-3-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Contributors:
- Aidan O'Loan (aidanol at gmail dot com)
- Alan Browning (browning at google dot com)
- Charles Munger (clm at google dot com)
- Cheng Yi (cyi at google dot com)
- Christian Duvivier (cduvivier at google dot com)
- Christopher Degawa (ccom at randomderp dot com)
- Clement Courbet (courbet at google dot com)
- Djordje Pesut (djordje dot pesut at imgtec dot com)
- Hui Su (huisu at google dot com)
- Ilya Kurdyukov (jpegqs at gmail dot com)
- Ingvar Stepanyan (rreverser at google dot com)
- James Zern (jzern at google dot com)
- Jan Engelhardt (jengelh at medozas dot de)
- Jehan (jehan at girinstud dot io)
- Johann Koenig (johann dot koenig at duck dot com)
- Jovan Zelincevic (jovan dot zelincevic at imgtec dot com)
- Jyrki Alakuijala (jyrki at google dot com)
- Konstantin Ivlev (tomskside at gmail dot com)
- Lode Vandevenne (lode at google dot com)
- Lou Quillio (louquillio at google dot com)
- Mans Rullgard (mans at mansr dot com)
- Marcin Kowalczyk (qrczak at google dot com)
- Martin Olsson (mnemo at minimum dot se)
- Mikołaj Zalewski (mikolajz at google dot com)
- Mislav Bradac (mislavm at google dot com)
- Nico Weber (thakis at chromium dot org)
- Noel Chromium (noel at chromium dot org)
- Oliver Wolff (oliver dot wolff at qt dot io)
- Owen Rodley (orodley at google dot com)
- Parag Salasakar (img dot mips1 at gmail dot com)
- Pascal Massimino (pascal dot massimino at gmail dot com)
- Paweł Hajdan, Jr (phajdan dot jr at chromium dot org)
- Pierre Joye (pierre dot php at gmail dot com)
- Sam Clegg (sbc at chromium dot org)
- Scott Hancher (seh at google dot com)
- Scott LaVarnway (slavarnway at google dot com)
- Scott Talbot (s at chikachow dot org)
- Slobodan Prijic (slobodan dot prijic at imgtec dot com)
- Somnath Banerjee (somnath dot banerjee at gmail dot com)
- Sriraman Tallam (tmsriram at google dot com)
- Tamar Levy (tamar dot levy at intel dot com)
- Timothy Gu (timothygu99 at gmail dot com)
- Urvang Joshi (urvang at google dot com)
- Vikas Arora (vikasa at google dot com)
- Vincent Rabaud (vrabaud at google dot com)
- Vlad Tsyrklevich (vtsyrklevich at chromium dot org)
- Wan-Teh Chang (wtc at google dot com)
- Yang Zhang (yang dot zhang at arm dot com)
- Yannis Guyon (yguyon at google dot com)
- Zhi An Ng (zhin at chromium dot org)

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Copyright (c) 2010, Google Inc. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.

  * Neither the name of Google nor the names of its contributors may
    be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
    without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| libxml2 2.9.11 (used under  and MIT)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- Copyright notice(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
"Copyright 2000 Example.com. All rights reserved"
"Copyright 2000 Example.com. All rights reserved"
"Copyright 2003 Red Hat, Inc.
 * Written by: hp@redhat.com
 */
"
"Copyright (C) 1998-2012 Daniel Veillard.  All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (C) 1998-2017 Daniel Veillard. OS/400 version by P. Monnerat.\")
make_module     OS400           os400.c
LINK=                           # No need to rebuild service program yet.
MODULES="
"Copyright (C) 1998 Bjorn Reese and Daniel Stenberg.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the abov"
"Copyright (C) 2000,2012 Bjorn Reese and Daniel Veillard.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the"
"Copyright (C) 2000 Bjorn Reese and Daniel Stenberg.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the abov"
"Copyright (C) 2000 Gary Pennington and Daniel Veillard.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the "
"Copyright (C) 2001 Bjorn Reese and Daniel Stenberg.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the abov"
"Copyright (C) 2001 Bjorn Reese <breese@users.sourceforge.net>
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided tha"
"Copyright (C) 2003-2012 Daniel Veillard.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
 * copyri"
"Copyright (c) 2010-2017 Christopher Swenson.
"
"Copyright (c) 2012 Google Inc. All Rights Reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2012 Vojtech Fried.
"
"Copyright (C) Daniel Veillard\0\"
      VALUE \"LegalTrademarks\",	\"\0\"
      VALUE \"OriginalFilename\",	\"libxml2.dll\0\"
      VALUE \"ProductName\",	\"libxml2\0\"
      VALUE \"ProductVersion\",	LIBXML_DOTTED_"
"Copyright check-xml-test-suite.py gentest.py \
	     check-relaxng-test-suite.py check-relaxng-test-suite2.py \
	     check-xsddata-test-suite.py check-xinclude-test-suite.py \
             example/Ma"
"Copyright COPYING"
"copyright description\"
    try:
"
"Copyright $(DESTDIR)
	$(MKDIR_P) $(DESTDIR)$(EXAMPLES_DIR)
	-$(INSTALL) -m 0644 $(srcdir)/xmllint.c $(DESTDIR)$(EXAMPLES_DIR)
	-$(INSTALL) -m 0644 $(srcdir)/testSAX.c $(DESTDIR)$(EXAMPLES_DIR)
	-$(INS"
"Copyright file."
"Copyright for the status of this software."
"Copyright for the status of this software."
"Copyright for the status of this software."
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 */
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
"
"Copyright for the status of this software
 */
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Anders F Bjorklund <afb@users.sourceforge.net>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Author: Aleksey Sanin <aleksey@aleksey.com>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Author: Alfred Mickautsch <alfred@mickautsch.de>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Author: Bjorn Reese <bjorn.reese@systematic.dk>
"
"COPYRIGHT for the status of this software
 *
 * Author: breese@users.sourceforge.net
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Author: Daniel Veillard
"
"Copyright for the status of this software
 *
 * Author: daniel@veillard.com
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Author: Gary Pennington <Gary.Pennington@uk.sun.com>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Author: Gary Pennington <Gary.Pennington@uk.sun.com>, Daniel Veillard
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Author: Joel W. Reed
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
/*                                                                            */
/*      Author: Patrick Monnerat <pm@datasphere.ch>, DATASPHERE S.A.        "
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * daniel@veillard.com
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Daniel Veillard <daniel@veillard.com>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Daniel.Veillard@imag.fr
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Daniel Veillard <veillard@redhat.com>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Daniel.Veillard@w3.org
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * Gary Pennington <Gary.Pennington@uk.sun.com>
 * daniel@veillard.com
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
#       Gary.Pennington@sun.com
###
import os, string
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * hp@redhat.com
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 */
#include <stdio.h>
#include <libxml/parser.h>
#include <libxml/tree.h>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 */
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <libxml/encoding.h>
#include <libxml/xmlwriter.h>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 */
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <assert.h>
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * javier@tiresiassoft.com
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * joelwreed@comcast.net
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
 *
 * UTF8 string routines from:
"
"Copyright for the status of this software.
# William Brack (wbrack@mmm.com.hk)"
"Copyright
rm -fR depcomp
rm -fR doc
rm -fR example
rm -fR INSTALL
rm -fR install-sh
rm -fR libxml.3
rm -fR ltmain.sh
rm -fR Makefile
rm -fR Makefile.tests
rm -fR macos
rm -fR mkinstalldirs"
"Copyright
	rm -rf"
"copyright sign, U
{ 170,	\"ordf\",	\"feminine ordinal indicator, U+00AA ISOnum\" },
{ 171,	\"laquo\",\"left-pointing double angle quotation mark = left pointing guillemet, U+00AB ISOnum\" },
{ 172,	\"not\",	\"no"
"Copyright without changing the namespace pointer to
 * something else can produce stale links. One way to do it is
 * to keep a reference counter but this doesn't work as soon
 * as one moves the elem"

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Daniel Veillard <daniel@veillard.com>
Bjorn Reese <breese@users.sourceforge.net>
William Brack <wbrack@mmm.com.hk>
Igor Zlatkovic <igor@zlatkovic.com> for the Windows port
Aleksey Sanin <aleksey@aleksey.com>

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Except where otherwise noted in the source code (e.g. the files hash.c,
list.c and the trio files, which are covered by a similar licence but
with different Copyright notices) all the files are:

 Copyright (C) 1998-2012 Daniel Veillard.  All Rights Reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is fur-
nished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| mbed TLS 2.28.0 (used under Apache-2.0)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| opencore-amr 0.1.5 (used under Apache-2.0)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- Copyright notice(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
"(C) 2004, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TTA, TTC)
"
"(C) 2007, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TTA, TTC)
"
"© Copyright  1995 - 2013 Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur F
  All rights reserved"
"Copyright  1995 - 2013 Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur F
  All rights reserved"
"Copyright  1995 - 2015 Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur F
  All rights reserved"
"Copyright 1999, Mark Martinec. All rights reserved"
"copyright assigned and is placed in the Public Domain.
 * This file is part of the mingw-w64 runtime package.
 *
 * The mingw-w64 runtime package and its code is distributed in the hope that it 
 * wi"
"Copyright(c)1996."
"Copyright (c) 1996, 1997
 *
"
"Copyright (c) 1997."
"Copyright (c)1997."
"Copyright (C) 1998-2009 PacketVideo
"
"Copyright (C) 1998-2010 PacketVideo
"
"Copyright (c) 2005 The Khronos Group Inc.
"
"Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012, MinGW.org Project.
 *
"
"Copyright (C) 2009 Martin Storsjo
"
"Copyright (C) 2009 PacketVideo
"
"Copyright (C) 2011 Martin Storsjo
"
"Copyright (c) ISO/IEC 2003."
"Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved"
"Copyright is not released for non MPEG-2 aac/MPEG-4
Audio conforming products. The original developer retains full right to
use the code for the developer's own purpose, assign or donate the code to a"
"Copyright is not released
   for non MPEG-2 NBC/MPEG-4 Audio conforming products.The original
   developer retains full right to use the code for his/her own purpose,
   assign or donate the code to a"
"Copyright is not released for non MPEG-2
NBC/MPEG-4 Audio conforming products. The original developer retains
full right to use the code for his/her own purpose, assign or donate
the code to a third p"
"Copyright is
 * not released for non MPEG-4 Video (ISO/IEC 14496-2) Standard conforming
 * products.
 *
 * ACTS-MoMuSys partners retain full right to use the code for his/her own
 * purpose, assign or"
"Copyright is not released for
products that do not conform to audiovisual and image-coding related ITU 
Recommendations and/or ISO/IEC International Standards.
The original developer retains full righ"
"Copyright Licencing Disclaimer:"
"Copyright present"

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Apache License
Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the
copyright owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with
that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the
power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such
entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty
percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial
ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
including but not limited to software source code, documentation source,
and configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation
or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled
object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form,
made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that
is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the
Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form,
that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial
revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as
a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License,
Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or
merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative
Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original
version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or
Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for
inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal
Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the
purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic,
verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its
representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic
mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that
are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing
and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously
marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a
Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on
behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
subsequently incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to
reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or
Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in
this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell,
import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to
those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily
infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their
Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted.
If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a
Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or
contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You
under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such
litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and
in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

   1. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a
copy of this License; and

   2. You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that You changed the files; and

   3. You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from
the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to
any part of the Derivative Works; and

   4. If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a
readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file,
excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative
Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file
distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a
display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party
notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for
informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your
own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute,
alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that
such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the
License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may
provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use,
reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such
Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in
this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to
the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License,
without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above,
nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license
agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except
as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of
the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to
in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any
warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for
determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and
assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this
License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether
in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to
in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including
any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any
character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or
inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of
goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been
advised of the possibility of such damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the
Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee
for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability
obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in
accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your
sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if
You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any
liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by
reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work

To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following boilerplate
notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own
identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!) The text should be
enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also
recommend that a file or class name and description of purpose be included
on the same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
identification within third-party archives.

 Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
 not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a
 copy of the License at

 http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable
 law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is
 distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
 KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
 governing permissions and limitations under the License.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| openh264 v2.1.0 (used under  and BSD-2-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- Copyright notice(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
"Copyright ©  2015\")
[assembly: AssemblyTrademark (\"\")]
[assembly: AssemblyCulture (\"\")]"
"Copyright 2015, Mozilla Foundation and contributors
"
"Copyright (c)  1998, 2009 Paul E. Jones <paulej@packetizer.com>
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2004-2013, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2004-2013, Cisco Systems
;*     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2008-2013, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2009-2013, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2009-2013, Cisco Systems
;*     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2009-2013, Cisco Systems
;*     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2009-2014, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2009-2015, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2009-2018, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2009-2019, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2010-2013, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2010-2013, Cisco Systems
;*     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2011-2013, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2013, Cisco Systems
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2013, Cisco Systems
All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c)  2013, Loongson Technology Co.,Ltd.
 *     All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2014"

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
# Contributors to the OpenH264 project

Patrick Ai
Sijia Chen
ZhaoZheng Chu
Paley Du
Martin Ettl
Andreas Gal
Xu Guang
Licai Guo
Yi Guo
Horace Huang
Steven Huang
Ethan Hugg
Cullen Jennings
Zhaofeng Jia
Derrick Jin
Jesse Li
Jifei Li
Kai Li
Karina Li
Matt Li
Xiang Li
Bourne Ling
Alex Liu
Wayne Liu
Varun Patil
Eric Rescorla
Adam Roach
Sawyer Shan
Siping Tao
Martin Storsjö
Brion Vibber
James Wang
Juanny Wang
Zhiliang Wang
Hervé Willems
Gregory J Wolfe
Katherine Wu
Guang Xu
Jeffery Xu
Gang Yang
Li Yao
Jiessie Zhang
Rory Zhang
Volvet Zhang
Ling Zhu
James Zhu
Dong Zhang
Haibo Zhu
Huade Shi

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Copyright (c) 2013, Cisco Systems
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
  other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| opus codec 1.1.2 (used under  and BSD-3-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- Copyright notice(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
"(C)
     AC_LINK_IFELSE(
     AC_LANG_POP])
  if test x\"$lt_cv_cc_needs_belf\" != x\"yes\"; then
    # this is probably gcc 2.8.0, egcs 1.0 or newer; no need for -belf
    CFLAGS=\"$SAVE_CFLAGS\"
  fi
  ;;"
"(C)/!b go
	:more
	/\./!{
	  N
	  s/\n# / /
	  b more
"
"(C)<<BITRES, (3
      /* Tilt of the allocation curve */
      trim_offset[j] = C*(m->eBands[j+1]-m->eBands[j])*(alloc_trim-5-LM)*(end-j-1)
            *(1<<(LM+BITRES))>>6;
      /* Giving less resol"
"(C) COPYRIGHT 1994-2002 Xiph.Org Foundation
/* Modified by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the "
"(C) * ((opus_int64)1 << (Q))"
"Copyright 2001-2011 Xiph.Org, Skype Limited, Octasic,
                    Jean-Marc Valin, Timothy B. Terriberry,
                    CSIRO, Gregory Maxwell, Mark Borgerding,
                    Erik "
"Copyright (C) 1994-1996, 1999-2002, 2004-2013 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."
"Copyright (C) 1994 X Consortium
"
"Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006,
"
"Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2004, 2005,
#                 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 Free Software
#                 Foundation, Inc.
#   Written by Gordon Matzigke"
"Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2004, 2005,
#                 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 Free Software
#                 Foundation, Inc.
#   Written by Gordon Matzigke"
"Copyright (C) 1996-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (C) 1996-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (C) 1997-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (C) 1999-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (c) 2001-2008 Timothy B. Terriberry
"
"Copyright (c) 2001-2011 Timothy B. Terriberry
"
"Copyright (c) 2001-2011 Timothy B. Terriberry
*/
"
"Copyright (C) 2001-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (C) 2001 Erik de Castro Lopo <erikd AT mega-nerd DOT com>
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following "
"Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Jean-Marc Valin
"
"Copyright (c) 2002-2008 Jean-Marc Valin
"
"Copyright (C) 2002-2013 Xiph.org Foundation"
"Copyright (C) 2002-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (c) 2003-2004, Mark Borgerding"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2004, Mark Borgerding
  Lots of modifications by Jean-Marc Valin
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Jean-Marc Valin
"
"Copyright (C) 2003-2008 Jean-Marc Valin
"
"Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Timothy B. Terriberry
"
"Copyright (C) 2003-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009 Free Software Foundation,
#   Inc.
#   Written by Gary V. Vaughan, 2004"
"Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
# Written by Gary V. Vaughan, 2004"
"Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2007, 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
#   Written by Scott James Remnant, 2004."
"Copyright (C) 2004-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (C) 2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
#   Written by Scott James Remnant, 2004"
"Copyright (c) 2005-2007, Xiph.Org Foundation
"
"Copyright (c) 2006-2011, Skype Limited. All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2006-2011, Skype Limited. All rights reserved"
"Copyright (C) 2006-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (c) 2007-2008 CSIRO
"
"Copyright (C) 2007-2008 CSIRO
"
"Copyright (C) 2007-2008 CSIRO
/**
   @file fixed_generic.h
   @brief Generic fixed-point operations
"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the f"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Timothy B. Terriberry
   Written by Timothy B. Terriberry and Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are p"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
"
"Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
"
"Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
/**
   @file stack_alloc.h
   @brief Temporary memory allocation on stack
"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/**
   @file arch.h
   @brief Various architecture definitions for CELT
"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/**
   @file mathops.h
   @brief Various math functions
"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/**
   @file pitch.c
   @brief Pitch analysis
"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/**
   @file pitch.h
   @brief Pitch analysis
"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/**
   @file vq.h
   @brief Vector quantisation of the residual
"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the f"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Xiph.Org Foundation
"
"Copyright (c) 2007-2011 Xiph.Org Foundation, Mozilla Corporation,
                           Gregory Maxwell
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin, Gregory Maxwell, and Timothy B. Terriberry */
/*
   Redistri"
"Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Xiph.Org Foundation
/**
   @file fixed_debug.h
   @brief Fixed-point operations with debugging
"
"Copyright (c) 2007 CSIRO
"
"Copyright (C) 2007 Jean-Marc Valin"
"Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Gregory Maxwell
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Gregory Maxwell */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted pro"
"Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
   are met:"
"Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Octasic Inc.
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the followin"
"Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Xiph.Org Foundation, Mozilla Corporation,
                           Gregory Maxwell
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin, Gregory Maxwell, and Timothy B. Terriberry */
/*
   Redistri"
"Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Xiph.Org Foundation, Mozilla Corporation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Timothy B. Terriberry */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   "
"Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the f"
"Copyright (c) 2008-2012 Gregory Maxwell
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Gregory Maxwell */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted pro"
"Copyright (c) 2008 Gregory Maxwell
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Gregory Maxwell */
/**
  @file celt.h
  @brief Contains all the functions for encoding and decoding audio
"
"Copyright (c) 2008 Gregory Maxwell
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Gregory Maxwell */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided"
"Copyright (c) 2008,      Xiph.Org Foundation, CSIRO"
"Copyright (c) 2008 Xiph.Org Foundation
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
   are met:"
"Copyright (c) 2008 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the follow"
"Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the f"
"Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."
"Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Xiph.Org Foundation, Skype Limited
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Koen Vos */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are p"
"Copyright (c) 2010 Xiph.Org Foundation
"
"Copyright (c) 2010 Xiph.Org Foundation, Skype Limited
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Koen Vos */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permit"
"Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Jean-Marc Valin"
"Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Xiph.Org Foundation, Mozilla Corporation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Timothy B. Terriberry */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   "
"Copyright (c) 2011-2013 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Gregory Maxwell */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the f"
"Copyright (C) 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This config.lt script is free software; the Free Software Foundation
gives unlimited permision to copy, distribute and modify it.\""
"Copyright (c) 2011, Skype Limited. All rights reserved"
"Copyright (c) 2011 Xiph.Org Foundation, Skype Limited
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin and Koen Vos */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permit"
"Copyright (c) 2011 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Gregory Maxwell */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the follow"
"Copyright (c) 2011 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the follow"
"Copyright (C) 2012 Xiph.Org Foundation
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
- Redistributions "
"Copyright (c) 2012 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jean-Marc Valin */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the follow"
"Copyright (c) 2012 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Jüri Aedla and Ralph Giles */
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that"
"Copyright (c) 2013 Jean-Marc Valin and John Ridges
"
"Copyright (c) 2013 Jean-Marc Valin
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
   are met:"
"Copyright (c) 2013 Parrot
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
   are met:"
"Copyright (C) 2013      Parrot
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
   are met:"
"Copyright (c) 2013       Parrot
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
- Redistributions of sour"
"Copyright (c) 2013      Parrot
; Written by Aurélien Zanelli
;
; Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
; modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions"
"Copyright (c) 2013      Parrot
@ Written by Aurélien Zanelli
@
@ Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
@ modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions"
"Copyright (c) 2013, Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors."
"Copyright (C) 2013 Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors
"
"Copyright (C) 2013 Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors
/*
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 "
"Copyright (C) 2013 Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
"
"Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Xiph.Org Foundation
   Written by Viswanath Puttagunta */
/**
   @file celt_neon_intr.c
   @brief ARM Neon Intrinsic optimizations for celt
"
"Copyright (c) 2014, Cisco Systems, INC MingXiang WeiZhou MinPeng YanWang
/**
   @file pitch_sse.h
   @brief Pitch analysis
"

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Jean-Marc Valin (jmvalin@jmvalin.ca)
Koen Vos (koenvos74@gmail.com)
Timothy Terriberry (tterribe@xiph.org)
Karsten Vandborg Sorensen (karsten.vandborg.sorensen@skype.net)
Soren Skak Jensen (ssjensen@gn.com)
Gregory Maxwell (greg@xiph.org)

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Copyright 2001-2011 Xiph.Org, Skype Limited, Octasic,
                    Jean-Marc Valin, Timothy B. Terriberry,
                    CSIRO, Gregory Maxwell, Mark Borgerding,
                    Erik de Castro Lopo

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

- Neither the name of Internet Society, IETF or IETF Trust, nor the
names of specific contributors, may be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER
OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Opus is subject to the royalty-free patent licenses which are
specified at:

Xiph.Org Foundation:
https://datatracker.ietf.org/ipr/1524/

Microsoft Corporation:
https://datatracker.ietf.org/ipr/1914/

Broadcom Corporation:
https://datatracker.ietf.org/ipr/1526/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| soxr-dev 0.1.3 (used under  and LGPL-2.0+)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Copyright (c) 2007-18 robs@users.sourceforge.net
Rob Sykes <robs@users.sourceforge.net>

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts
 as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence
 the version number 2.1.]

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

		  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| theora v1.2.0alpha1 (used under  and BSD-3-Clause)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- Copyright notice(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
"(C) COPYRIGHT 1994-2009
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors http://www.xiph.org/ *
 *                                                                  *
"
"Copyright © 2004 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
"
"Copyright (c) 1987, 1993, 1994
 *	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved"
"Copyright (C) 1987, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99
"
"Copyright (C) 1987,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,95,96,98,99,2000,2001
"
"Copyright (C) 1987,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,96,97,98
"
"Copyright (C) 1989-1994, 1996-1999, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
"
"Copyright (C) 1989,90,91,92,93,94,96,97,98 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
"
"Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Ross Bencina and Phil Burk
"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 1999-2006
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/                  *
 *                                                                  *
"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 1999-2006
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/                  *
 *                                                                  *
"
"Copyright (C) 1999 Rainer Johanni <Rainer@Johanni.de>
 *
 *  This file is part of transcode, a linux video stream processing tool
"
"Copyright (c) 2000 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
 * All rights reserved"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2004
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/                  *
 *                                                                  *
"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2007
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors http://www.xiph.org/ *
 *                                                                  *
"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2007
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/                  *
 *                                                                  *
"
"Copyright (C) 2002-2007 Xiph.Org Foundation\"
      VALUE \"OriginalFilename\",TH_DEC_INTERNAL_NAME \".dll\"
      VALUE \"ProductName\",\"libtheora\"
      VALUE \"ProductVersion\",TH_VERSION_STRING
    END
  E"
"Copyright (C) 2002-2007 Xiph.Org Foundation\"
      VALUE \"OriginalFilename\",TH_ENC_INTERNAL_NAME \".dll\"
      VALUE \"ProductName\",\"libtheora\"
      VALUE \"ProductVersion\",TH_VERSION_STRING
    END
  E"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2009,2009
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors http://www.xiph.org/ *
 *                                                                  *
"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2009
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors http://www.xiph.org/ *
 *                                                                  *
"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2009
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/                  *
 *                                                                  *
"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2009
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/                  *
 *                                                                  *
"
"Copyright (C) 2002-2009 Xiph.org Foundation"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2010
 * by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors http://www.xiph.org/ *
 *                                                                  *
"
"COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2010
;* by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors http://www.xiph.org/ *
;*                                                                  *
"
"Copyright (C) 2002 Thomas
 *
 *  Original code:
"
"Copyright (C) 2003 Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
   Organisation (CSIRO) Australia"
"Copyright (C) 2005. Some Rights Reserved.\"
"
"Copyright (C) 2009 Robin Watts for Pinknoise Productions Ltd
; last mod: $Id$
;********************************************************************
"
"COPYRIGHT:} Copyright statement.
"
"Copyright (C) Thomas
"
"COPYRIGHT field for such a URL.
\item{ORGANIZATION:} Studio name, Publisher, or other organization
 involved in the creation of the video."
"Copyright \textcopyright
All rights reserved"

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Please see the file COPYING for the copyright license for this software.

In addition to and irrespective of the copyright license associated
with this software, On2 Technologies, Inc. makes the following statement
regarding technology used in this software:

  On2 represents and warrants that it shall not assert any rights
  relating to infringement of On2's registered patents, nor initiate
  any litigation asserting such rights, against any person who, or
  entity which utilizes the On2 VP3 Codec Software, including any
  use, distribution, and sale of said Software; which make changes,
  modifications, and improvements in said Software; and to use,
  distribute, and sell said changes as well as applications for other
  fields of use.

This reference implementation is originally derived from the On2 VP3
Codec Software, and the Theora video format is essentially compatible
with the VP3 video format, consisting of a backward-compatible superset.

Authors:
Monty <monty@xiph.org>
	- Original VP3 port

Timothy B. Terriberry
Gregory Maxwell
Ralph Giles
Monty
	- Ongoing development

Dan B. Miller
	- Pre alpha3 development

Rudolf Marek
Wim Tayman
Dan Lenski
Nils Pipenbrinck
Monty
	- MMX optimized functions

David Schleef
	- C64x port

Aaron Colwell
Thomas Vander Stichele
Jan Gerber
Conrad Parker
Cristian Adam
Sebastian Pippin
Simon Hosie
Brad Smith
	- Bug fixes, enhancements, build systems.

Mauricio Piacentini
	- Original win32 projects and example ports
	- VP3->Theora transcoder

Silvia Pfeiffer
	- Figures for the spec

Michael Smith
Andre Pang
calc
Chris Cheney
Brendan Cully
Edward Hervey
Adam Moss
Colin Ward
Jeremy C. Reed
Arc Riley
Rodolphe Ortalo
	- Bug fixes

Robin Watts
	- ARM code optimisations

and other Xiph.org contributors

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Copyright (C) 2002-2009 Xiph.org Foundation

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

- Neither the name of the Xiph.org Foundation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION
OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| zlib 1.2.11 (used under  and Zlib)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- License text(s) --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Acknowledgments:

  The deflate format used by zlib was defined by Phil Katz.  The deflate and
  zlib specifications were written by L.  Peter Deutsch.  Thanks to all the
  people who reported problems and suggested various improvements in zlib; they
  are too numerous to cite here.

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

The zlib/libpng License
=======================

Copyright (C) 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In no
event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of
this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including
commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to
the following restrictions:

      1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
      claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a
      product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
      appreciated but is not required.

      2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
      misrepresented as being the original software.

      3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu
The data format used by the zlib library is described by RFCs (Request for
Comments) 1950 to 1952 in the files http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1950
(zlib format), rfc1951 (deflate format) and rfc1952 (gzip format).
===============================================================================
Generated on Tue Feb  1 15:53:14 CET 2022 using Black Duck 2021.10.3.
